## Ambiguous grammars
Derivation is for a particular string from a particular grammar. If you are expanding the leftmost variable first in the derivation its called as the left most derivation. If you are expanding the rightmost variable first in the derivation its called as the right most derivation. For a grammar if we take any string and if it has more than one left most derivation, or more that one right most derivation or more than one parse tree then the grammar is said to be ambiguous. Ambiguous in the sense if we have 2 parse trees then parsers will get confused on which one to generate and which one is right. 

The parse trees may have the same yield when it comes to strings, but if you feed it numbers the evaluation is completely different, one may not follow the bod mass rule and therefore that cannot be used at all. If a parse tree evaluation is correct for a grammar, then by looking at the grammar itself we can tell about the precedence of the operators and about the associativity of the operators. The operators that are present at the most deepest level of the tree are of higher precedence and the operators that are force the tree to grow in only one direction in left(left associative)or right(right associative).\

Almost all parsers except one will not allow or cannot work with ambiguous grammars. So if we have an ambiguous grammar we have to convert it to unambiguous grammar first.Its important to understand that, there are no algorithms for finding whether a grammar is ambiguous or not, you have to do hit and trail way by taking a string and checking whether it has more than two parse trees or not. Some of the ambiguous grammar can be converted to unambiguous grammars. And there are no algorithms for converting, you have to find the root cause by seeing the production rules that cause ambiguity(disambiguating rules) in the grammar and work on them.

A grammar, if the production that generates the operator is left recursive the that operator is left associative. Similarly in a grammar, if the production that generates the operator is right recursive the that operator is right associative. The precedence for operator is introduced by the concept of levels. Defining the correct associativity and precedence for grammar avoids ambiguity in the grammar.